# Citi Bike Data Challenge 

#### In this challenge we were to find two phenomena in the Citi Bike Data for NYC. Q2 (April, May, June) is one of the busiest times in New York City. Tourists and others travel from all over and would like to spend more time outside, therefore looking at data from a five year period (2015-2019) would give a general idea of growth during this time over the years.

#### When looking at the amount of 24-hour passes purchased in this time period, there is a 34% increase in total passes purchased. Additionally, when looking at the numbers the month that most recently has the most purchaseswas May of 2019, the increase in May from 2015 - 2019 was 36% more in sales of 24-hour passes. This goes to show that in Q2 and in May the want to pay for a 24-hour pass increased year-over-year. Since this is an apt time to visit according to the New York Tourism board, it would be wise to continue to track data by quarter and analyze the increase or decrease of 24-hour pass purchases in that time since it is a higher likelihood that tourists are buying these passes than residents who would likely buy a longer amount of days or annual pass. 

#### When looking at the data for mileage and total trips in a 24-hour period however, it does look different than for the 24-hour passes. By 2019, the mileage that people were going on bikes was far less than the year before. The trips in April 2015 are almost equal to the trips in June of 2019. Many factors could play into this, there could have been specific events in June of 2019 that deterred people to ride bikes around the city. At the lowest number of trips in April 2015, the average mileage per trip was 1.7 miles, by June of 2018 people were averaging 2.3 miles per trip. This information helps to understand that even at it's highest in the last five years people usually don't exceed 2.5 miles on Citi Bikes. This could be due to accessibility, the exact distance between start and end stations, or that walking is a more common form of transportation. 

#### All in all in Q2 is a great place to start looking at trends in an increase of bike usage and see where you could find areas that trend one way or another. 
